README.md, before:

# Terraform Databricks Examples

## Introduction

This repository contains practical examples of using [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) to deploy and manage [Databricks](https://databricks.com/) workspaces and resources across multiple cloud providers. It is intended as a reference for infrastructure engineers, data engineers, and anyone interested in automating Databricks deployments using Infrastructure as Code (IaC) principles.

This is my personal repository, you can find more comprehensive example of [Databricks Official Terraform examples](https://github.com/databricks/terraform-databricks-examples).

## Repository Structure

The repository is organized by provider, with each provider having its own directory:

- `aws/`   – For deploying Databricks on Amazon Web Services
- `azure/` – For deploying Databricks on Microsoft Azure
- `gcp/`   – For deploying Databricks on Google Cloud Platform

## How to Use This Repository

1. **Clone the Repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/work-apradana/terraform-databricks-examples.git
   cd terraform-databricks-examples
   ```

2. **Choose Your Cloud Provider**
   - Navigate to the folder for your target cloud: `aws/`, `azure/`, or `gcp/`.

3. **Review and Customize**
   - Review the example Terraform files.
   - Copy the folder or files to your own project directory.
   - Edit variable values as needed (see `variables.tf` and example `.tfvars` files).

4. **Initialize and Apply**
   - Initialize Terraform:
     ```bash
     terraform init
     ```
   - (Optional) Review the execution plan:
     ```bash
     terraform plan -var-file="sample.terraform.tfvars"
     ```
   - Apply the configuration:
     ```bash
     terraform apply -var-file="sample.terraform.tfvars"
     ```

5. **Clean Up**
   - To destroy the resources created by the example:
     ```bash
     terraform destroy -var-file="sample.terraform.tfvars"
     ```

## Notes

- **Terraform Installation:** Look into [Teraform installation instructions](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/aws-get-started/install-cli) for terraform installation.
- **Credentials & Authentication:** In this example, I use User-2-Machine authentication for Databricks, AWS, and Azure. Meaning that you will need to setup cli and login using `databricks auth login`, `aws sso login`, or `az login`. This is to minimize presence of long term credentials such as service account/principal. For GCP I still use service-account since `gcloud auth application-default login` is blocked in my organization.
- **Sensitive Data:** Do not commit sensitive information (such as secrets or cloud credentials) to version control. Use `.tfvars` files and reference them locally.
- **Customization:** These examples are intended as starting points. Adapt them to fit your needs and best practices.

## Contributing

Contributions, improvements, and new examples are welcome! Please open an issue or submit a pull request.

## License

This repository is provided for educational purposes and is licensed under the MIT License.

---

Commit message:

renamed simple to basic for base example for all clouds. add more readme and license. add complete beginner guide. update azure basic example

README.md, after:

# Terraform Databricks Examples

## Introduction

This repository contains practical examples of using [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) to deploy and manage [Databricks](https://databricks.com/) workspaces and resources across multiple cloud providers. It is intended as a reference for infrastructure engineers, data engineers, and anyone interested in automating Databricks deployments using Infrastructure as Code (IaC) principles.

You can find more comprehensive example of [Databricks Official Terraform examples](https://github.com/databricks/terraform-databricks-examples). This repository is meant as the lighter version of it, providing you with quick commonly used workspace configuration.

NOTE: This guide assumes you have some prior knowledge about Cloud and Terraform. If you are quite new about all this, you may want to follow the [Complete Beginner's Guide](./beginner-guide.md) for a more guided approach.


## Repository Structure

The repository is organized by provider, with each provider having its own directory:

- `aws/`   – For deploying Databricks on Amazon Web Services
- `azure/` – For deploying Databricks on Microsoft Azure
- `gcp/`   – For deploying Databricks on Google Cloud Platform


## How to Use This Repository

1. **Clone the Repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/work-apradana/terraform-databricks-examples.git
   cd terraform-databricks-examples
   ```

2. **Choose Your Cloud Provider**
   - Navigate to the folder for your target cloud: `aws/`, `azure/`, or `gcp/`.

3. **Review and Customize**
   - Review the example Terraform files.
   - Copy the folder or files to your own project directory.
   - Edit variable values as needed (see `variables.tf` and example `.tfvars` files).

4. **Initialize and Apply**
   - Initialize Terraform:
     ```bash
     terraform init
     ```
   - (Optional) Review the execution plan:
     ```bash
     terraform plan -var-file="sample.terraform.tfvars"
     ```
   - Apply the configuration:
     ```bash
     terraform apply -var-file="sample.terraform.tfvars"
     ```

5. **Clean Up**
   - To destroy the resources created by the example:
     ```bash
     terraform destroy -var-file="sample.terraform.tfvars"
     ```

## Notes

- **Terraform Installation:** Look into [Teraform installation instructions](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/aws-get-started/install-cli) for terraform installation.
- **Credentials & Authentication:** In this example, User-2-Machine authentication is used for Databricks, AWS, and Azure. Meaning that you will need to setup cli and login using `databricks auth login`, `aws sso login`, or `az login`. This is to minimize presence of long term credentials such as service account/principal. For GCP, usually `gcloud auth application-default login` is used but since it is blocked by my organizational policy, service-account file is used instead. Feel free the application default login method if it suits you.
- **Sensitive Data:** Do not commit sensitive information (such as secrets or cloud credentials) to version control. Use `.tfvars` files and reference them locally.
- **Cost:** Note that the resources used in these examples are not all within Cloud's Free Tier limit. Most cost will come from networking component such as NAT gateway and data egress. 
- **Customization:** These examples are intended as starting points. Adapt them to fit your needs and best practices.

## Contributing

Contributions, improvements, and new examples are welcome! Please open an issue or submit a pull request.

## License

This repository is provided for educational purposes and is licensed under the MIT License.

---
